Korean Fried Chicken
The most delicious Korean Fried Chicken made with crispy fried chicken and a simple sticky sauce. Don't forget to check out our step by step photos and tips above!
CourseMain Course
CuisineAsian
Prep Time10 minutes
Cook Time20 minutes
Total Time30 minutes
Servings4 - 6 servings
Calories289kcal
AuthorJohn Kanell
Ingredients
¼ cup gochujang see tip, below
¼ cup honey
2 Tbsp. lime juice
2 Tbsp. soy sauce
2 lbs. chicken tenders
2 tsp. kosher salt
1 tsp. black pepper
1 tsp. chile flakes
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
3 Tbsp. cornstarch
Vegetable oil for frying
Sesame seeds and sliced green onion for garnish
Instructions
In a medium bowl, whisk together gochujang, honey, lime juice, and soy sauce until smooth, Set aside.
Sprinkle chicken on all sides with salt, pepper, and chile flakes.
In another medium bowl, combine flour and cornstarch. Add chicken; toss to coat.
Add vegetable oil to a large skillet to a depth of about ¾ inch.
Heat oil until shimmering. Add chicken in batches; cook, turning occasionally, until browned
and crispy, 7 to 9 minutes per batch. Transfer cooked chicken to a wire rack.
Toss cooked chicken in sauce mixture to coat.
Sprinkle chicken with sesame seeds and green onion, if desired.
Notes
Gochujang is a very mild Korean chile paste that you can find on the international foods aisle of most grocery stores. It’s much less spicy than sriracha.
If you want even more Korean flavor, visit your local Asian grocery store and look for gochugaru—Korean chile flakes—to toss with the chicken tenders before frying.
You can use this same method to cook chicken nuggets; simply cut down the frying time slightly.
To give these chicken tenders even more Asian flair, I like to add about a tablespoon of sesame oil to each batch when frying.
Nutrition
Calories: 289kcal | Carbohydrates: 29g | Protein: 34g | Fat: 4g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Cholesterol: 97mg | Sodium: 1105mg | Potassium: 654mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 13g | Vitamin A: 312IU | Vitamin C: 5mg | Calcium: 16mg | Iron: 1mg